README.md, before:

# JavaProgramming-DSAQuest

**🔍 Exploring Java programming and DSA through problem-solving and challenges, with a focus on enhancing skills and understanding. Currently using Eclipse IDE for Java (2024-09) to tackle these problems and expand knowledge. 💻**

---

## Number Programs

1. **WAJP to take user input and print whether the number is an Armstrong Number or not.**
2. **WAJP to print and count all the Armstrong Numbers up to 1000.**
3. **WAJP to take user input and print whether the number is Prime Number or not.**
4. **WAJP to print and count all the Prime Numbers up to a given range.**
5. **WAJP to print alternate Prime Numbers and count all the Prime Numbers up to a given range.**  
   a) _Alternate Prime Numbers at Odd Positions. Ex: 2 5 11 17..._  
   b) _Alternate Prime Numbers at Even Positions. Ex: 3 7 13 19..._
6. **WAJP to print and count all Prime Numbers in a range where sum of digits is also a Prime Number.**
7. **WAJP to take user input and check the number is Palindrome or not.**
8. **WAJP to print and count all the Palindrome Numbers in a given range.**
9. **WAJP to print all the Palindrome Numbers in a range which are also Prime Numbers.**
10. **WAJP to take user input and print whether the number is Perfect Number or not.**
11. **WAJP to print and count all the Perfect Numbers in a given Range.**
12. **WAJP to take user input and print whether the number is Dissarium Number or not.**
13. **WAJP to print and count all the Dissarium Numbers in a given Range.**
14. **WAJP to take user input and print whether the number is Happy Number or not.**
15. **WAJP to take user input and print whether the number is Automorphic Number or not.**
16. **WAJP to print and count all the Automorphic Numbers in a given Range.**
17. **WAJP to take user input and print whether the number is Fascinating Number or not.**  
    a) _Using Brute-Force Approach_  
    b) _Using Optimal Approach with Frequency Array_
18. **WAJP to print and count all the Fascinating Numbers in a given Range.**
19. **WAJP to take user input and print whether the number is Strong Number or not.**
20. **WAJP to print and count all the Strong Numbers in a given Range.**
21. **WAJP to swap two numbers a and b by using third variable.**
22. **WAJP to swap two numbers a and b without using third variable.**
23. **WAJP to convert Decimal Number into Binary Number.**
24. **WAJP to convert Binary Number into Decimal Number.**
25. **WAJP to convert Decimal Number into Octal Number.**
26. **WAJP to convert Octal Number into Decimal Number.**
27. **WAJP to convert Decimal Number into Hexadecimal Number.**
28. **WAJP to convert Hexadecimal Number into Decimal Number.**

---

## Recursion

1. **WAJP to generate numbers from 1 to n using recursion.**
2. **WAJP to generate Table of any number using recursion.**
3. **WAJP to print sum of numbers from 1 to n using recursion.**
4. **WAJP to print sum of squares of numbers from 1 to n using recursion.**
5. **WAJP to print factorial of a number using recursion.**
6. **WAJP to print power of a number using recursion.**
7. **WAJP to get count of digits of a number using recursion.**
8. **WAJP to calculate sum of digits of a number using recursion.**
9. **WAJP to find reverse of a number using recursion.**
10. **WAJP to check whether a number is palindrome or not using recursion.**
11. **WAJP to take four user inputs and print biggest of those using recursion.**
12. **WAJP to calculate nth term of Fibonacci series using recursion.**
13. **WAJP to print n terms of Fibonacci series using recursion.**
14. **WAJP to take three user inputs and print HCF of the three numbers using recursion.**
15. **WAJP to take three user inputs and print LCM of the three numbers using recursion.**

---

## Array Programs

1. **WAJP to print the even index elements of the array.**
2. **WAJP to print the even elements of the array.**
3. **WAJP to print and count all the even numbers of the array.**
4. **WAJP to print and count all the three digit numbers of the array.**
5. **WAJP to print sum and average of all the elements of array.**
6. **WAJP to print the Biggest element, Smallest element and their difference in the array.**
7. **WAJP to print and count all the Strings which has even number of characters.**
8. **WAJP to print the largest string and smallest string.**
9. **WAJP to print each element of the array in reverse order.**
10. **WAJP to print alternate element of the array from end.**
11. **WAJP to swap two index values of the array.**
12. **WAJP to sort an Array consisting of only 0s and 1s.**
13. **WAJP to move all the even integers at the beginning of the array followed by all the odd integers.**  
    a) _The relative order of odd or even integers does not matter._  
    b) _Maintaining the relative order of even numbers._  

---

## Binary Search

1. **WAJP to implement Binary Search on Sorted Array.**
    a) _Using Iterative Approach_
    b) _Using Recursive Approach_
2. **WAJP to find the first occurrence of an element x, given that array is sorted. If no occurrence of x is found, return -1.**
3. **WAJP to find the last occurrence of an element x, given that array is sorted. If no occurrence of x is found, return -1.**

---

## Sorting

1. **WAJP to implement *Bubble Sort* for sorting Array in Non-Decreasing Order.**
2. **WAJP to implement *Bubble Sort* for sorting Array in Decreasing Order.**
3. **WAJP to implement *Selection Sort* for sorting Array in Non-Decreasing Order.**
4. **WAJP to implement *Selection Sort* for sorting Array in Decreasing Order.**
5. **WAJP to implement *Insertion Sort* for sorting Array in Non-Decreasing Order.**
6. **WAJP to implement *Insertion Sort* for sorting Array in Decreasing Order.**
7. **WAJP to implement *Merge Sort* for sorting Array in Non-Decreasing Order.**
8. **WAJP to implement *Merge Sort* for sorting Array in Decreasing Order.**

---

## Collection Framework

1. **WAJP to create a collection and iterate over the collection.**  
    a) _Using Iterator Cursor_  
2. **WAJP to create a collection and print all the Integer elements of the collection.**  
3. **WAJP to create a collection and calculate sum of all the integer elements of collection.**  
4. **WAJP to create a collection and print the largest integer and smallest integer available in collection.**  
    a) _Using Iterator Cursor_  
    b) _Using In-built methods_  
5. **WAJP to create a collection and print the length of all String available in collection.**  
6. **WAJP to create a collection and print the largest String and smallest String available in collection.**  
7. **WAJP to create a collection and remove all the elements other than Integer from the collection.**  
8. **WAJP to create a collection and print and count all the three digit integers available in collection.**  
9. **WAJP to create a collection and count the number of even integer numbers available in collection.**  
10. **WAJP to create a collection of integers and print all the prime numbers available in collection.**  
11. **WAJP to create a collection of integers and print all the palindrome numbers available in collection.**  
12. **WAJP to identify and print all Unique elements in a List/Array.**  
13. **WAJP to identify and print all duplicate elements in a List/Array.**  
14. **WAJP to remove all the duplicates from a List/Array.**  
15. **WAJP to print all the unique characters from a String.**  
16. **WAJP to print all the characters from String which has appeared more than once in the String/ print all duplicate characters.**  
17. **WAJP to remove all duplicate characters from String.**  
18. **WAJP to merge two List objects into a single list without duplicates. Maintain the insertion order for unique elements.**  
19. **WAJP to compare two List objects and return:**  
    a) _The common elements between them._  
    b) _The elements present only in the first list but not in the second._  
    c) _The elements present only in the second list but not in the first._  
20. **WAJP to find all missing numbers from a given List of integers from 1 to N (with some numbers missing).**  
21. **WAJP to partition a List of integers into two sublists, one with all even numbers, and another with all odd numbers.**  
22. **WAJP to store the binary values of a number in List.**  
23. **WAJP to print whether the list is in sorted order or not.**  
24. **WAJP to check whether given String is Valid Paranthesis or not.**

---

## Linked List

1. **WAJP to implement a method to insert the node at the end of a linked list.**  
2. **WAJP to display the Linked List:**  
    a) _Iterative Approach._  
    b) _Recursive Approach._  
3. **WAJP to implement a method to insert the node at the end and beginning of a linked list.**  
4. **WAJP to find out the length of Linked List:**  
    a) _Iterative Approach._  
    a) _Recursive Approach._  
5. **WAJP to implement a method to insert the node at any given index of a linked list.**

Commit message:

24 May 2025
Added program to find the square root of a number and round-off it to the nearest floor value.

README.md, after:

# JavaProgramming-DSAQuest

**🔍 Exploring Java programming and DSA through problem-solving and challenges, with a focus on enhancing skills and understanding. Currently using Eclipse IDE for Java (2024-09) to tackle these problems and expand knowledge. 💻**

---

## Number Programs

1. **WAJP to take user input and print whether the number is an Armstrong Number or not.**
2. **WAJP to print and count all the Armstrong Numbers up to 1000.**
3. **WAJP to take user input and print whether the number is Prime Number or not.**
4. **WAJP to print and count all the Prime Numbers up to a given range.**
5. **WAJP to print alternate Prime Numbers and count all the Prime Numbers up to a given range.**  
   a) _Alternate Prime Numbers at Odd Positions. Ex: 2 5 11 17..._  
   b) _Alternate Prime Numbers at Even Positions. Ex: 3 7 13 19..._
6. **WAJP to print and count all Prime Numbers in a range where sum of digits is also a Prime Number.**
7. **WAJP to take user input and check the number is Palindrome or not.**
8. **WAJP to print and count all the Palindrome Numbers in a given range.**
9. **WAJP to print all the Palindrome Numbers in a range which are also Prime Numbers.**
10. **WAJP to take user input and print whether the number is Perfect Number or not.**
11. **WAJP to print and count all the Perfect Numbers in a given Range.**
12. **WAJP to take user input and print whether the number is Dissarium Number or not.**
13. **WAJP to print and count all the Dissarium Numbers in a given Range.**
14. **WAJP to take user input and print whether the number is Happy Number or not.**
15. **WAJP to take user input and print whether the number is Automorphic Number or not.**
16. **WAJP to print and count all the Automorphic Numbers in a given Range.**
17. **WAJP to take user input and print whether the number is Fascinating Number or not.**  
    a) _Using Brute-Force Approach_  
    b) _Using Optimal Approach with Frequency Array_
18. **WAJP to print and count all the Fascinating Numbers in a given Range.**
19. **WAJP to take user input and print whether the number is Strong Number or not.**
20. **WAJP to print and count all the Strong Numbers in a given Range.**
21. **WAJP to swap two numbers a and b by using third variable.**
22. **WAJP to swap two numbers a and b without using third variable.**
23. **WAJP to convert Decimal Number into Binary Number.**
24. **WAJP to convert Binary Number into Decimal Number.**
25. **WAJP to convert Decimal Number into Octal Number.**
26. **WAJP to convert Octal Number into Decimal Number.**
27. **WAJP to convert Decimal Number into Hexadecimal Number.**
28. **WAJP to convert Hexadecimal Number into Decimal Number.**

---

## Recursion

1. **WAJP to generate numbers from 1 to n using recursion.**
2. **WAJP to generate Table of any number using recursion.**
3. **WAJP to print sum of numbers from 1 to n using recursion.**
4. **WAJP to print sum of squares of numbers from 1 to n using recursion.**
5. **WAJP to print factorial of a number using recursion.**
6. **WAJP to print power of a number using recursion.**
7. **WAJP to get count of digits of a number using recursion.**
8. **WAJP to calculate sum of digits of a number using recursion.**
9. **WAJP to find reverse of a number using recursion.**
10. **WAJP to check whether a number is palindrome or not using recursion.**
11. **WAJP to take four user inputs and print biggest of those using recursion.**
12. **WAJP to calculate nth term of Fibonacci series using recursion.**
13. **WAJP to print n terms of Fibonacci series using recursion.**
14. **WAJP to take three user inputs and print HCF of the three numbers using recursion.**
15. **WAJP to take three user inputs and print LCM of the three numbers using recursion.**

---

## Array Programs

1. **WAJP to print the even index elements of the array.**
2. **WAJP to print the even elements of the array.**
3. **WAJP to print and count all the even numbers of the array.**
4. **WAJP to print and count all the three digit numbers of the array.**
5. **WAJP to print sum and average of all the elements of array.**
6. **WAJP to print the Biggest element, Smallest element and their difference in the array.**
7. **WAJP to print and count all the Strings which has even number of characters.**
8. **WAJP to print the largest string and smallest string.**
9. **WAJP to print each element of the array in reverse order.**
10. **WAJP to print alternate element of the array from end.**
11. **WAJP to swap two index values of the array.**
12. **WAJP to sort an Array consisting of only 0s and 1s.**
13. **WAJP to move all the even integers at the beginning of the array followed by all the odd integers.**  
    a) _The relative order of odd or even integers does not matter._  
    b) _Maintaining the relative order of even numbers._  

---

## Binary Search

1. **WAJP to implement Binary Search on Sorted Array.**
    a) _Using Iterative Approach_
    b) _Using Recursive Approach_
2. **WAJP to find the first occurrence of an element x, given that array is sorted. If no occurrence of x is found, return -1.**
3. **WAJP to find the last occurrence of an element x, given that array is sorted. If no occurrence of x is found, return -1.**
4. **WAJP to find the square root of a number and round-off it to the nearest floor value.**

---

## Sorting

1. **WAJP to implement *Bubble Sort* for sorting Array in Non-Decreasing Order.**
2. **WAJP to implement *Bubble Sort* for sorting Array in Decreasing Order.**
3. **WAJP to implement *Selection Sort* for sorting Array in Non-Decreasing Order.**
4. **WAJP to implement *Selection Sort* for sorting Array in Decreasing Order.**
5. **WAJP to implement *Insertion Sort* for sorting Array in Non-Decreasing Order.**
6. **WAJP to implement *Insertion Sort* for sorting Array in Decreasing Order.**
7. **WAJP to implement *Merge Sort* for sorting Array in Non-Decreasing Order.**
8. **WAJP to implement *Merge Sort* for sorting Array in Decreasing Order.**

---

## Collection Framework

1. **WAJP to create a collection and iterate over the collection.**  
    a) _Using Iterator Cursor_  
2. **WAJP to create a collection and print all the Integer elements of the collection.**  
3. **WAJP to create a collection and calculate sum of all the integer elements of collection.**  
4. **WAJP to create a collection and print the largest integer and smallest integer available in collection.**  
    a) _Using Iterator Cursor_  
    b) _Using In-built methods_  
5. **WAJP to create a collection and print the length of all String available in collection.**  
6. **WAJP to create a collection and print the largest String and smallest String available in collection.**  
7. **WAJP to create a collection and remove all the elements other than Integer from the collection.**  
8. **WAJP to create a collection and print and count all the three digit integers available in collection.**  
9. **WAJP to create a collection and count the number of even integer numbers available in collection.**  
10. **WAJP to create a collection of integers and print all the prime numbers available in collection.**  
11. **WAJP to create a collection of integers and print all the palindrome numbers available in collection.**  
12. **WAJP to identify and print all Unique elements in a List/Array.**  
13. **WAJP to identify and print all duplicate elements in a List/Array.**  
14. **WAJP to remove all the duplicates from a List/Array.**  
15. **WAJP to print all the unique characters from a String.**  
16. **WAJP to print all the characters from String which has appeared more than once in the String/ print all duplicate characters.**  
17. **WAJP to remove all duplicate characters from String.**  
18. **WAJP to merge two List objects into a single list without duplicates. Maintain the insertion order for unique elements.**  
19. **WAJP to compare two List objects and return:**  
    a) _The common elements between them._  
    b) _The elements present only in the first list but not in the second._  
    c) _The elements present only in the second list but not in the first._  
20. **WAJP to find all missing numbers from a given List of integers from 1 to N (with some numbers missing).**  
21. **WAJP to partition a List of integers into two sublists, one with all even numbers, and another with all odd numbers.**  
22. **WAJP to store the binary values of a number in List.**  
23. **WAJP to print whether the list is in sorted order or not.**  
24. **WAJP to check whether given String is Valid Paranthesis or not.**

---

## Linked List

1. **WAJP to implement a method to insert the node at the end of a linked list.**  
2. **WAJP to display the Linked List:**  
    a) _Iterative Approach._  
    b) _Recursive Approach._  
3. **WAJP to implement a method to insert the node at the end and beginning of a linked list.**  
4. **WAJP to find out the length of Linked List:**  
    a) _Iterative Approach._  
    a) _Recursive Approach._  
5. **WAJP to implement a method to insert the node at any given index of a linked list.**
